For reasons that will be explained below, SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly
during an adventure. You must keep an accurate
record of these scores and for this reason you are
advised either to write small in the boxes or to keep
an eraser handy. But never rub out your Initial
scores. Although you may be awarded additional
SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals
may never exceed your Initial scores, except on very
rare occasions, when you will be instructed on a
particular page.
Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA Score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your STAMINA score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your LUCK score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.
Luck — and magic — are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not - or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle.
The sequence of combat is then:
1. Roll the two dice once for the creature. Add its
SKILL score. This total is the creature’s Attack
Strength.
2. Roll the two dice once for yourself. Add the
number rolled to your current SKILL score. This
total is your Attack Strength.
3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it. Proceed to step 4.
If the creature’s Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you. Proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided each other’s blows — start the next Attack
Round from step 1 above.
4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use
your LUCK here to do additional damage.
5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score. Again
you may use LUCK at this stage.
6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature’s or your own STAMINA scores (and
your LUCK score if you used LUCK — see over).
7. Begin the next Attack Round (repeat steps 1-6),
This sequence continues until the STAMINA
score of either you or the creature you are fight-
ing has been reduced to zero (death).

On some pages you may be given the option of
running away from a battle should things be going
badly for you. However, if you do run away, the
creature automatically gets in one wound on you
(subtract 2 STAMINA points) as you flee. Such is the
price of cowardice. Note that you may use LUCK on
this wound in the normal way (see below). You may
only Escape if that option is specifically given to you
on the page.

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your luck to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using luck is a risky business and
if you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.
The procedure for using your luck is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been unlucky and you will be penalized.
This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you ‘Test your Luck’, you must subtract one
point from your current LUCK score. Thus you will
soon realize that the more you rely on your luck, the
more risky this will become.

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being lucky or unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your luck either to
inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
the creature has just inflicted on you.
If you have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are lucky, vou
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA score.
However, if you are unlucky, the wound was a mere
graze and you must restore 1 point to the creature’s
STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the normal 2
points of damage, you have now scored only 1).
If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If vou are
lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage of
the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA (i.e. instead
of doing 2 points of damage it has done only 1). If
you are unlucky, you have taken a more serious
blow. Subtract 1 exfra STAMINA point.
Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your Own LUCK
score each time you Test your Luck.

Your skILLscore will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your SKILL score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your SKILL, but
remember that only one weapon can be used at a
time! You cannot claim 2 SKILL bonuses for carry-
ing two Magic Swords. Your sKILL score can never
exceed its Initial value unless specifically instructed.
Drinking the Potion of Skill (see later) will restore
your SKILL to its Initial level at any time.

Your STAMINA Score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight monsters and undertake
arduous tasks, As you near your goal, your
STAMINA level may be dangerously low and battles
may be particularly risky, so be careful!
Your haversack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals. You may rest and eat only when allowed by
the instructions on a page, and you may eat only
one meal at a time. Eating a meal restores 4
STAMINA points. When you eat‘a meal, add 4
points to your STAMINA score and deduct 1 point
from your Provisions. A separate Provisions Remain-
ing box is provided on the Adventure Sheet for record-
ing details of Provisions. Remember that you havea
long way to go, so use your Provisions wisely!
Remember also that your STAMINA score may
never exceed its Initial value unless specifically
instructed on a page. Drinking the Potion of
Strength (see later) will restore your STAMINA to
its Initial level at any time.

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of the book.
Remember that, as with sk1L_t and STAMINA,
your LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value
unless specifically instructed on a page. Drinking
the Potion of Fortune (see later) will restore your
LUCK to its Initial level at any time, and increase
your Initial LUCK by 1 point.

Potions may be taken at any time during your
adventure. Taking a measure of potion will restore
SKILL, STAMINA or LUCK scores to their Initial
level (and the Potion of Fortune will add 1 point to
your Initial LUCK score before LUCK is restored).
Each bottle of potion contains enough for two
measures i.e. the characteristic may be restored
twice during an adventure. Each time it is used
make a note on your Adventure Sheet.
Remember also that you may only choose one of the
three potions to take on your trip, so choose wisely!